
Kna 1
Bhang peddlers arrested
Vihiga, Aug 16, 2010        By Bantaleo Muhindi

Two people were last night arrested with bhang worth over shs.120, 000 and
18 litres of chang’aa in Emuhaya District.

The 300stones of bhang and the illicit brew were aboard a Nairobi bound
Akamba bus which was coming from Busia.

According to the Vihiga Police boss, Lawrence Garama, the bhang was
meticulously packed in briefcases while sachets were used as containers of
the chang’aa.

Mr. Garama, who is in command of Emuhaya, Vihiga, Hamisi and Sabatia
districts, said that the bus was stopped at Luanda road block.

When being searched the police at the road block became suspicious of the
contents of the brief cases and asked for the owner.

Upon opening one of them, the police found it contained the narcotics, added
he.

It was then that they insisted on the rest of the 10 brief cases being
opened and the drug was found in all of them.

The police arrested the two owners of the luggage and frogmatched them to
Luanda Police station where they were locked up.

Mr. Garama said that the duo would be arraigned in a Vihiga court tomorrow.

Ends


Kna 2
Man bites child
Vihiga, August 16, 2010         By Bantaleo Muhindi

A primary school girl will lose an eye after she was bitten all over her
face by a man who also defiled her.

The 8 year old year girl (names withheld) was going to a stream to fetch
water after spending her day at Masana Primary School, Vihiga District, when
a man pounced on her.

According to the girl’s mother, Mrs. Janet Mbone Omido, he muffled the
standard two girl and carried her to a bush along a foot path.

But the man had a herculean task ahead of him while at the bush as the girl
put up resistance. A struggle to defile the girl virtually hit a dead end.

Realising that his plan could go awry, the man uncovered her mouth and
defiled the girl who then screamed.

As the girl whose father, Hesbon Omido, died five years ago, screamed the
assailant became more beastly. He started biting the girls’ face repeatedly.

While members of the public ran to the scene the man took to his heels,
leaving her for dead. By then he had bitten her face, lips and tongue
besides poking her eyes.

She was rushed to Vihiga District Hospital where she has, since admission
five days ago, been fed on liquids only.

Medics described the girls’ right eye as dead as puss oozed out of the other
one. By her hospital bedside sat her sobbing and traumatised mother.

Vihiga Police, who got wind of what had transpired, came to the hospital and
carried away the clothes the girl wore when the bizarre incident occurred.

The Masana Assistant Chief, Mr.Francis Oboge, said that the villain,
identified as Joel Kigwe, was at large. He confirmed that the man had
returned from prison recently. But local residents claimed that he is
usually seen roaming about in the village.

Ends



Kna 3

Goat jail

Vihiga, Aug. 16, 2010       By Bantaleo Muhindi

A man who had carnal knowledge of a goat  was yesterday  sentenced to one
year imprisonment at  a Vihiga court by senior Resident Magistrate , L.O
Onyina

The 39 year Alex Amajoma was charged with committing the bestial act at
Kisienyani village, Mungoma location, Vihiga District, on August 6.

According to the prosecution the man took a goat from where it was tethered
and engaged in the unnatural act on material day at 9.15 am.

As he did so other goats bleated, thereby attracting attention of their
owner, Ms. Joyce Afandi who  went to where she had left her goats grazing
and only  to find  the accused carrying one the domestic animals in his
hands.

The  court heard that ,the accused stood dead in his trucks, not knowing
what to do when asked what he was doing forcing her to scream for held from
neighbours who came for rescue

The accused pleaded guilty  and was sent to jail.

Ends


Kna 4
Fistula
Kabarnet,  August 16, 2010 by Kiptanui Cherono

Women suffering from Fistula in Baringo and neighbouring districts, will
receive free surgical treatment at the Kabarnet district hospital.

Kabarnet district hospital gynecologist Dr. Kennedy Onyango said the five
day exercise  sponsored by the African Medical Research Foundation (AMREF)
will run from 30th August to 3rd September, with screening to take place
between 28th and 29th August.

Addressing the press in Kabarnet town yesterday, Dr. Onyango said fistula
develops as a result of  prolonged labour, which puts pressure on the
urinary bladder, making it to rot  and forces the urine to pass through the
birth or the stool canal.

Women who give birth at home have a higher risk of developing fistula, said
the gynecologist who advised expectant mothers to attend prenatal clinics
and receive specialised care during delivery, to minimize chances of
developing fistula.

“Women suffering from this problem have no life at all,since they cannot
even venture to the market, while others are chased from their matrimonial
homes”, said Dr. Onyango

He also observed that the victims have continued to live with thecondition
for years due to ignorance, “Quite a number are not aware that the expertise
is now available to correct the problem”.

Treatment of Fistula costs up to shs. 150,000 in private hospitals and not
less than at shs. 20,000 government hospitals, according to Dr. Onyango.

To get more informaton on the disorder, patients are advised to call Dr.
Onyango on 0723881932 or Juliet on 0723685244.

Ends

Palestinians reiterate demand for settlement freeze before direct talks

RAMALLAH, Aug. 16, (XINHUA/KNA) --The Palestinian leadership Sunday insisted
that Israel must stop all forms of settlement activities before launching
direct negotiations with them (Palestinians), reports Xihnua.
The demand, long held by the Palestinian National Authority (PNA), was a
focal point when President Mahmoud Abbas and Prime Minister Salam Fayyad
held separate meetings with Norwegian Foreign Minister, Jonas Gahr Store, in
Ramallah late last night.

Stopping settlement expansion and allocating a clear agenda for the
negotiations "are the real entry to start direct negotiations leading to an
independent Palestinian statehood with (East) Jerusalem as its capital," the
official Palestinian news agency, Wafa, quoted Abbas as saying.

Earlier on Sunday, Fayyad told the Norwegian delegation that the peace
process "needs credibility and seriousness" to secure a two-state solution
to the decades-old conflict.

He also urged the international community to press Israel to "stop
settlement activities completely, especially in Jerusalem and its
surroundings," according to Wafa reports.

Yet in a move obviously provocative to the Palestinians, Israel has lately
decided to build 23 portable structures in Jewish settlements in the West
Bank that would serve as classrooms.

The decision was made despite a 10-month moratorium Israeli Prime Minister,
Benjamin Netanyahu, announced late last year on new settlement construction
projects in West Bank settlements.

The Israeli government dubbed the reluctant compromise, made under heavy
international pressure, particularly from the United States, an
unprecedented opportunity for the two neighbours to resume peace talks that
had been stalled since the Jewish state's massive military operation in the
Gaza Strip over one and a half years ago.

However, the Palestinians have condemned the Israeli gesture as insincere,
as the suspension order excludes the disputed East Jerusalem and public
facilities like schools and synagogues and the 3,000 housing units already
under construction in West Bank settlements.

Also under U.S. pressure, the PNA agreed earlier this year to enter
so-called proximity talks with Israel under mediation of U.S. President
Barack Obama's special envoy, George Mitchell, to bridge the gaps that
prevent the resumption of direct talks.

Commenting on the indirect negotiations, an aide to Abbas said Sunday after
a meeting between Abbas and David Hale, Mitchell's deputy, that the talks
were making headway.

"A progress has been made in the proximity talks, and the talks will
continue," Abbas' spokesman, Nabil Abu Rdineh, said in a statement. He did
not elaborate, only saying that the discussions were focusing on "ideas that
have been put forward."

The remarks marked a different tone from previous comments made by many
Palestinian negotiators, who have long been complaining about lack of
visible progress.

The Palestinian side will make its decision on whether to upgrade the
indirect talks to direct ones after the Middle East Quartet of the United
States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations specify their
stance, Abu Rdineh said.

The Quartet is expected to issue a statement in the coming days explaining
their commitment to the peace process, laying some principles for the
negotiations and formally inviting the Palestinians and Israelis to start
face-to-face talks.

Ends


Kna 6
Taliban commander, 4 comrades killed in southern Afghan province
GHAZNI, Afghanistan, Aug. 16, (XINHUA/KNA) --Afghan and NATO-led troops,
during a joint operation, eliminated five Taliban insurgents including their
commander in southern Ghazni province, provincial police chief said on
Monday, reports Xihnua.
"Afghan and international troops raided Taliban hideouts in Muqar district
on Sunday night as a result five militants including their commander, Mullah
Salim, were killed," Khayal Baz Shirzai told Xinhua. There were no
casualties on the troops, he emphasized.

Taliban militants have yet to make comment.

Muqar, Qarabagh and Andar districts in Ghazni province are regarded as the
hotbeds of Taliban militants from where they have expanded their activities.

The insurgents, who have vowed to intensify their activities against Afghan
and NATO-led troops, had fired several rockets to Ghazni's provincial
capital the Ghazni city last week.

Ends


Kna 7
Cambodia says sanctions on Iran not a good solution
PHNOM PENH, Aug. 16, (xinhua/KNA) --Cambodia's top diplomat said Monday that
sanctions imposed on Iran were not a good solution, but negotiations and
engagement are better ways out, re[ports Xihnua.
Speaking to reporters on Monday at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
International Cooperation, Hor Namhong, Deputy Prime Minister and minister
of Foreign Affairs, said "to impose sanctions against Iran is not a
solution" and  he suggested " negotiations and engagement" should be better
ways out.

The minister was attributing his remarks to the experience Cambodia learned
after the Khmer Rouge regime was toppled in 1979, during which Cambodia was
imposed with serious and critical sanctions but, he said, Cambodia still
survived and developed until today.

Hor Namhong visited  Iran last week where he signed a petroleum deal there.

Iran is the second largest oil exporter to the world markets.

Since June, Iran has been imposed on sanctions by the United States,
European Union and the United Nations to stop its sensitive
uranium-enrichment programme which they fear would lead to nuclear weapons
production.

But Iran government has denied the charge saying the programme was only for
a peaceful purpose.

Ends


Kna 8
Italian minister hails achievements in fight against organized crime
ROME, Aug. 16, 2010, (Xinhua/ Kna)

Interior Minister Roberto Maroni Sunday has praised the great achievements
made since Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's government took office
two years ago, with an ambition to curb crimes and boost safety in the
country.
    "In the past two years, we have reached outstanding results in the
fight against organized crime," Maroni said at a press conference following
a meeting of the Committee on Order and Public Safety in Palermo, Sicily,
the hotbed of Italy's mafia.

    According to a statement by Maroni's office, authorities have dealt a
significant blow to three mafia clans scattered across Italy.

    Since the establishment of Berlusconi's center-right government in
2008, a total of 6,483 mafia criminals have been arrested (an average of 8
per day), and 26 of the most wanted are behind bars now, the minister said.
After being seized, Mafia assets would be assigned to public use, he added.

    Maroni stressed that the 59 agreements signed with local authorities on
city violence had promoted safety by increasing funds and the numbers of
policemen.

    The minister also mentioned illegal immigration, noting that the number
of boat people landing on Italian shores had drastically dropped by 88
percent due to the government's hard stance on sea patrolling.

    The Committee on Order and Public Safety united all of Italy' s
security forces: the police, information agencies, anti-Mafia prosecutor
Piero Grasso and other law enforcement agencies.

Ends


Kna 9
Ex-Malaysian Deputy PM fails to drop sodomy charge
    KUALA LUMPUR, Aug. 16. 2010 (Xinhua/ Kna)

Former Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim failed inhis bid to
strike out the sodomy charge against him at the Kuala Lumpur High Court on
Monday.

    Anwar made the second attempt to drop the charge on August. 2 on the
grounds of an alleged affair between Deputy Public Prosecutor (DPP) Farah
Azlina Latif and key witness Mohd Saiful Bukhari.

    The court ruled that Anwar's application to strike out the charge was
dismissed as the issue of the accused not getting a fair trial did not
exist.

    Judge Mohmad Zabidin Mohd Diah said that after going through the
application and affidavits, Farah Azlina was found to have no access to
documents as stated in the affidavit of Investigating Officer Judge and
another DPP.

    "Therefore, she (Farah) did not ascertain the direction of the
prosecution," said the judge.

    The sodomy trial against Anwar will continue, and according to the
Malaysian law, Anwar can be sentenced to jail for 20 years once convicted.

    Anwar first filed an application to have the charge against him dropped
when a medical report revealed that the anus of Saiful, also the case's
complainant, was not penetrated.

    Saiful, Anwar's former political aide, alleged Anwar of sodomizing him
on June 26, 2008, in a condominium unit, resulting in Anwar being charged
over the allegation in the same month.

    After Anwar's counsel had failed to request for the court proceedings
to stay, the Kuala Lumpur High Court began to hear the trial on February 3,
2010, almost 18 months Anwar was charged.

    This was also the second time Anwar was charged over the same
allegation after the first time in 1998 that resulted in him being convicted
and sentenced to jail for nine years.

    In the court, Anwar rebutted that the allegation was malicious in
intent and pleaded not guilty to the accusation.

    He also filed suits against Saiful for lodging false report and
defaming him.

    The court proceedings of the case has been slow since its commencement
when Anwar's counsel filed several applications that has directly delayed
the hearing.

    Earlier, there were disputes on which court is appropriate to handle
Anwar's case. While Anwar's counsel insisted that a sessions court would do,
the Malaysian court finally ruled that the case be handled by a high court.

    Later in February this year, Anwar applied to recuse the judge on the
grounds of bias after Mohamad Zabidin refused to entertain requests by
Anwar's lead counsel Karpal Singh to cite a local newspaper for contempt
over two articles it carried.

    Meanwhile, Anwar's counsel also applied to the court to obtained the
information on the evidences provided by the prosecution but their efforts
were driven to no avail.

    Anwar became Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister in 1993 but was later
sacked in September 1998 when the then Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir
Mohamad claimed that Anwar was guilty of homosexual acts.

    Currently, Anwar is the adviser of the opposition party Parti Keadilan
Rakyat, or the People's Justice Party and the opposition leader in the
Malaysian Parliament.

Ends


Kna 10
Leftist rebels kill 2 persons in S. Philippines
    DAVAO CITY, Philippines, Aug. 16 (Xinhua/ Kna)

Suspected leftist rebels shot dead a soldier and a civilian in southern
Philippines over the weekend, police and military officials said on Monday.

    The soldier, Sergeant Elmo Penar, was killed  when three New People's
Army gunmen fired at him as he returned home from attending a cockfight in a
village in Balingasag town, in Mindanao's Misamis Oriental province Sunday
evening, said Lieutenant Colonel Triump Bagaipo, spokesperson of the army's
4th Infantry Division.

    The suspects also shot civilian Alexander Pabualan before fleeing. He
died while being treated at a local hospital early Monday, Bagaipo said,
adding that police and military are now hunting the assailants.

The 4,000-strong NPA, armed wing of the Communist Party of the Philippines,
is fighting a 41-year leftist insurgency in 60 of the country's 79
provinces.

Ends



Kna 11
Asians in depression
    WELLINGTON, Aug. 16 (Xinhua/ KNA)  --

Experts believe that shame and stigma associated with mental illness is
preventing the Asian community in New Zealand from seeking help.

According to Xinhua reports, more than 7 percent of the population in New
Zealand South Island's largest city of Christ church are Asian and new
research by Partnership Health's ethnic liaison officer Wayne Reid found
that only 1.7 percent were using the mental health services.

Reid said that the figure does not necessarily reflect a lower rate of
mental illness, but a lower rate of accessing services.

"The stigma and shame attached to mental health issues and the subsequent
loss of face means they do not seek medical help. Coupled with all this is
the total lack of culturally sensitive mental health services,"  he  said.

The entire Canterbury region has only two Mandarin-speaking counselors and
Problem Gambling Foundation's Asian Services project leader Simon Tam said
that all migrants suffer to a degree from anxiety and stress.

In addition to language barriers, isolation and difficulties in asking for
help, it could become a potentially fatal situation as there’s a huge extent
of untreated mental illness in the Asian community.

To tackle this,  Tam and Reid want an Asian-specific health center to be
established in Christchurch  but have  warned of an "Asian time bomb"" if
these mental health issues were to be left untreated.

Ends


Kna 12
Indonesian president vows to continue fighting radicalism
JAKARTA, Aug. 16, (XINHUA/KNA) --
Indonesian President, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, stressed on Monday that the
country would continue combating terrorism, following a progress of the
country' s crack down on radicalism recently, reports Xihnua.

President Yudhoyono made the statement at his regular annual speech ahead of
the anniversary of Independence Day on Aug. 17 at the parliament building
amid a tight security as he has become one of the terror targets.

"Our nation is struggling to free itself from extremism and terrorism, " he
said in his speech.

Indonesian security authorities will launch a tight security during the
anniversary on Tuesday, as the police have found out that militants have
targeted foreign guests and Indonesia's top officials, attending the
celebration, for their attacks.

The police has also re-arrested an alleged top figure of the plot, Muslim
cleric, Abu Bakar Bashir, and filed terrorism charges against him.

The Southeast Asia's largest economy has experienced dealing with radicalism
in the country since 2000, but it has not destabilized the country and
impact on investment.

From the raids in Aceh province and West Java, it is found that the
militants have developed the way of their strikes and its impact by
developing more powerful small bombs in a laboratory in Bandung district of
West Java.

The plots could create instability in the country, which has been the best
investment destination in the region due to its stability, sound
macro-economic fundamentals, modest growth and expectation to investment
grade rated by most of rating agencies.

Previously the president has called to save the country's youngsters from
terrorist recruitment, following the uncover of the suicide bombings in twin
luxurious hotels in Jakarta in July last year. Many of the perpetrators were
young people.

Indonesia has experienced a series of major terrorist strikes since 2000
that killed more than 250 people.

Ends


Kna 13
Inns closed
MACAO, Aug. 16, 2010(Xinhua/ Kna)

A total of 14 suspected illegal inns have been shut down by inspectors
dispatched by the government of Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR),
the Macao Post Daily reported Monday.
The move came after a new law banning illegal accommodation services in the
SAR came into effect last Friday.

The government inspectors probed 61 local inns since last Friday, 14 of
which were sealed on grounds that they were being used to provide illegal
accommodation services, the daily said.

Some 64 people were taken in for questioning.

Over 100 illegal inns were believed to be operating in the SAR's Zape and
Nape districts alone, according to the daily.

Ends

